So, this exercise asked us to use this list of colors to draw a rainbow shape.
In this video, I'm going to show how to make
a hexagon where each side is a different color.
Since there are six sides and a hexagon and six colors in this list,
there will be one color for each side.
The first thing we need to do is add code to create a new turtle.
Then we can write the code to draw a hexagon.
Now, we already have done something like that from
an earlier lesson but we just haven't made it rainbow-colored yet.
When I'm experimenting with something new and I'm not quite sure how to do it,
I'll often start with whatever parts I know pretty well how to do and
then work step-by-step from there toward what the new thing is.
So for now, I'm not going to worry about the rainbow part.
I'm just going to start by drawing a simple hexagon.
To do that, I'm going to use a for loop.
Since the hexagon has six sides,
I'll have the loop run six times.
I can do that by using a list with six items like this.
Each time the loop runs,
I'll have the turtle go forward by
100 pixels which will be one of the sides of the hexagon.
Then it needs to turn.
As we saw earlier,
we can get the turning angle for any regular polygon by dividing
360 degrees by however many sides the shape has.
Three hundred and sixty divided by six is 60
so I'll have the turtle turn right by 60 degrees.
So, at this point we should have functioning code that draws a hexagon.
Whenever I get to a point in my code where I
think it should run and have some visible results,
I like to test it to make sure it's working how I expect.
That way I could catch any little errors that I might have made while I was working,
and yeah, it looks like it's drawing a hexagon.
It's so little hard to see because it's using such a thin black line.
So one little thing I can change,
is make the line thicker using the width method.
Now we need to think about changing the color.
First, I'll start by just setting a single color like we've done before.
I also don't particularly like the hexagon's off-center.
It's kind of down off to the right.
So, I'm going to have the turtle back up a little before it starts drawing.
I now hide the turtle when it's done drawing just so that
we don't have a little arrowhead shape sticking out of our shape.
So now we need to think about how to get it to
change its color every time it runs through the loop,
and we know that we want to use this list of colors here.
More specifically, we need to use a different one of
the colors in this list every time the loop runs through.
The trick here is to use the loop variable.
Right now we have a loop variable named side,
and each time the loop runs,
this variable gets assigned a number from this list.
One through six.
But we're not doing anything with these numbers.
We're just using the fact that there are six of them.
However, this rainbow list also has six items in it.
So, we could replace our list of numbers with that list of colors,
and our program shouldn't really do what it's doing.
It should still draw a hexagon just like before.
Now, since each of the items in this list is a color,
I'm going to change the name of the variable from side to pretty color.
I called it pretty color rather than just color because I
didn't want to confuse it with the color method.
Now each time the loop runs,
the pretty color variable will be getting a different color from the list.
First red then orange then yellow and so on.
But we're still not doing anything with these colors.
So when we run the code,
we just get a plane red hexagon and all we need to
do is to set the color based on that pretty color variable.
So now each time the loop runs,
we're passing a different color to
the color method which is then used for one of the sides,
and there we go.
A rainbow hexagon.